---
layout: post
type: status
title: 'DROWN Attack vulnerability'
description: 'CSIRT Vulnerability advisory : DROWN'
headline: "Check your SSL layers !"
category: security
tags: [AAROC, CSIRT, operations, security, updates, DROWN, CVE-2016-0800 ]
image:
  feature: ''
  attribution:
comments: false
discourse: true
---

# TL;DR - SSLv2 is vulnerable, use TLS

We have received notification from the [SANREN CSIRT](mailto:csirt@sanren.ac.za) of the [DROWN Vulnerability - Decrypting RSA using Obsolete and Weakened eNcryption)](https://drownattack.com), AKA **CVE-2016-0800** :

> Although there is much hype around such vulnerabilities it is rated as IMPORTANT and seems serious enough for us to send out this notification particularly as the tester identifies weak SSL configurations / vulnerable library versions which may be subject to other vulnerabilities.
>  Please see this [drownattack.com](https://drownattack.com) to see if you are vulnerable
> You should test your domains at the above site and mitigate if necessary.

# Mitigation

If you discover a problem affecing one or more web serivces at your site, the CSIRT recommends the following action for mitigation :

> ... mitigation involves disabling support for SSLv2 and possibly updating SSL libraries (e.g. OpenSSL).
> Shared keys/certificates with a vulnerable server also present a risk.

We do not currently have a check in our [DevOps](https://github.com/AAROC/DevOps) repo for the Ansible or Puppet configurations of services such as the web interface for the IdP. There is no proactive monitoring of this vulnerabity. If necessary, a playbook to apply mitigation strategies could be developed.

## For more info, contact the [SANREN CSIRT](mailto:csirt@sanren.ac.za).

Thanks to Roderick Mooi from SANREN CSIRT for the heads-up.
